---
layout: post
title:  "july"
date:   2020-09-25
author: MB Reed
category: blog
---

A test 

## The Pentacle Papers newsletter - July 2020


Hello,

Thank you for your interest in my novel The Hammond Conjecture. Here is the first of my occasional newsletters. By 'occasional' I mean once a month at most. You can unsubscribe at any time using the link at the bottom.

In this letter:

* The Hammond Conjecture;
* Other writing;
* Devs;
* StoryOrigin promotions.

### The Hammond Conjecture

While in lockdown, I have been revising Conjecture in the light of reader feedback, and republished it on 2nd July.
Part of the intention of the novel is to have situations which seem far-fetched but could so easily have happened. And during the first days of Lockdown here in the UK I felt akin to Hugh in his isolation ward at the novel's start. Working in my garden in an unseasonal heatwave, no sounds of traffic or aircraft, everything at peace. Then in the evening seeing TV news images of a dystopian outside world. 

I also completed the background footnotes accompanying the novel on my website (mbreed.co.uk), though I now need to slightly rearrange them to the new chapter structure in the 2nd edition. These are also intended to show that the unlikely details of the novel are based on historical facts.

I also need to restart the blog.

I hope you will obtain a copy of Conjecture. For a limited time you can request a free review copy, or buy it on sale - see the StoryOrigin links below.


### Other writing
