---
layout: post
title:  "Pentacle Papers newsletter - August 2020"
date:   2020-09-26
author: MB Reed
category: blog
---

Hello,

Thank you for opening this latest newsletter, which is a sounding-board for my writings, principally my novel The Hammond Conjecture. If you haven’t yet done so, please request a free Review Copy, at  
[this link](https://storyoriginapp.com/reviewcopies/954ef05e-6c4c-4c12-a423-03fd9161d0ef)

 
### Short Story

In the last newsletter I promised you a short story titled ‘Is This It?’ once it had been rejected for the Bath Short Story Award. Well, I was right: it didn’t even make the long list. I fear that in the current Puritan woke climate, my style of writing is going to have a hard time. Dry humour and irony are pretty much out, too. There is, of course, another possible explanation: that the story is rubbish. You’ll have a chance to judge when you see it. Now, though, I have entered it in a competition in Ireland, where I hope that the dead hand of woke has not fully descended. Entries must be "unpublished", and I’m never sure if making it available to newsletter subscribers counts as publication, so I’m afraid I won’t provide it just yet.

However, I promised you a short story. So I’ve developed one called "CSI: Uxbridge" from something I’ve written wearing my other hat as a mathematician. It’s meant to be light relief at the end of a chapter on solving differential equations, in a textbook for first-year bioscience undergraduates. Don’t let that last sentence put you off: it tries to combine humour with maths, for a non-maths audience. It also has the "clever young female who outsmarts her male boss" trope which is required nowadays. I’d like to hear what you think; please email me. You can download the story at [https://BookHip.com/KWVJJX](https://BookHip.com/KWVJJX).

 
### Background to *The Hammond Conjecture*, part 1

I have always liked alternate history, of which the if-the-Nazis-had-won-the-War sub-genre is very popular. The best novels such as *Fatherland* and *SS-GB* depict both German and British characters as flawed humans struggling to follow their own beliefs. But a few years ago I read Dominion, set in a post-war occupied Britain, which saw everything in black and white: heroic Brits resisting evil Nazis in a London of unremitting gloom, poverty and misery. I wanted to write a riposte to this; I had seen the complex reality of occupation in eastern Europe in the 1970s and 80s. Admittedly all these novels are set in the aftermath of the War, when life was still hard. But time moves on: what would 1968 have been like? Would there still have been the Beatles, the Swinging Sixties, the student rebellions? An era when I was at university, and which I have great nostalgia for.

And then I read *Double Standards*, an account of how close Britain came to signing an armistice with Hitler in 1941. In that world, how would people now view the "alternative history": of a continued war of mass slaughter until Britain was left shattered, bankrupt and ripe for invasion? 

If you are interested in what students were thinking about at that far-off time, I can recommend the BBC Radio 3 series "The Essay: To The Barricades!". Still available on BBC Sounds till the end of this month at https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b0b2mfh5. This is the episode on French philosophers: like the now-forgotten Merleau-Ponty who mused on the Block Model of Time while occupying German troops marched beneath the window of his Paris apartment: “We experience Time as a river, and what is in it was already happening before you saw it as it flowed past, and would be happening long afterwards in a future you cannot see.”


### Promotions

Humour is in short supply these days. Check out these SFF freebies with a humorous tone: https://storyoriginapp.com/to/5nMxwPQ

*Conjecture* has a couple of badass female characters. If that turns you on, have a look at the offers under the title Vicious Vixens: https://storyoriginapp.com/to/yg9VXgU

And if cyberpunk space opera is your thing, you can get a free copy of *Yufu’s Run*: https://storyoriginapp.com/reviewcopies/4fbb8637-9ded-4c3a-8e90-5621193d51ba


Do email me.

Martin Reed